# Interdependence-of-cellular-and-network-properties-in-respiratory-rhythm-generation
Instructions for running simulation code. 

1. Copy spk.cc file to new directory and create subdirectory labeled "data"
2. Compile code using g++ compiler (ver. 9.3.0) using the command: 
    ```
   g++ -std=c++0x -O2 spk.cc -o spk
   ```

3. Run simulations executing the commands in the file labeled "do". The commands with in the "do" file contains commads for generating the example traces of the impact of changes in spike height (gSPK) or after hyperpolerization (gAHP). For example the following command will run one simulations for 40 seconds of simulation time with 1 neuron (``-s 1``) with control conditions and the paramters used for an average preBotC neuron (i.e. gTonic=0.285nS,``-d .285 0.285``; kbath=8.5mM,``-kbath 8.5``; gSPK=gAHP=0nS,``-gSPK 00 00 -gAHP 0 0``; gNaP=3.33nS,and gLeak=3.5nS,``-nap 3.33 3.33 -gleak 3.5 3.5``). Data then written into the files ``data/2_0_0.sp``, ``data/2_0_0.hst``, and ``data/2_0_0.ca`` in the "data" folder. 
   ```
   ./spk -DT 0.1 -d .285 0.285 -s 1 -T 40 -w 0.0 -prob 0.0 -kbath 8.5 -gSPK 00 00 -gAHP 0 0 -nap 3.33 3.33 -gleak 3.5 3.5  data/2_0_0.sp -o  >data/2_0_0.hst 2>data/2_0_0.ca
   ```
   The first part of the line ``./ip3 `` runs simulations and the flags ``-`` allow for setting of model parameters. For the output of the simulation to be written to file, the folder containing the "spk.cc" code must include a folder called "data".

4. Plot Figures. Figures were plotted using gnuplot (Ver. 5.2 patchlevel 8). See http://www.gnuplot.info/ for information and installation instructions. The figure "Model_examples.pdf" can be generated by running the gnuplot plotting file "figs.gp". After running all simulations in the "do" file, this gnuplot file can be executed in Ubuntu command line by typing the following command:

    ```
    gnuplot figs.gp
    ```
Alternatively, the simulation output can be plotted using any graphing software. All output data is organized into columns in the .sp files where column 1 in all simulations is time in seconds and additional colums track network variables such as the a neurons membrane potential or the network firing rate.


